Roleplaying and YOU!

So, you've happened upon this lovely game, Space Station 13. You may feel some strange, new, exciting changes and urges.
Many of which involve a toolbox.
But, "no!" cry your peers. "You GRIEFER! Host, ban him!" They all say.
Well, ha ha, that's because you just haven't learned of the magic of roleplaying. 
"Roleplaying?" You might say, confused. "What on earth is that?!" 
Well, little Jimmy, that's what got all of your peers to hate you! Ha ha! But, enough of that.

Roleplaying is similar to the games of house, doctor, or neighborhood battle to the death that you played as a kid.
What? Didn't you play any of those? 
If not, you're a blight to humanity, I say!
But enough about that. 
The details of roleplaying's "rules" vary from person to person-- and in Space Station 13, there are few set rules except the rules of common sense, decency, consent, and "what the host says goes".
When playing Space Station 13, you may find most people tend to obey the last one most. Which is a good thing-- the host is the one who runs the server, and allows you to play the game by causing trouble to their computer.

Roleplaying, to generalize, is putting yourself in your character's place. If you truly have no idea what a character is like, just try pretending it was you in the character's situation: a direct self-insert. Modify a few things about you to help you fit in the SS13 setting, and there you have it.
Once you've become more experienced with roleplay, you may want to try making characters that deviate further and further from yourself. Another gender, another personality type... there are endless possibilities.
A good method of making a character from scratch that I've found involves starting with a few words that describe your character ("selfish", "two-faced", "charming), and coming up with little quirks for them, as well as fleshing out their personality. Such as how they got to where they are, and other things.
A good guide to creating a well-rounded character can be found at the following URL:
http://home.comcast.net/~rthamper/html/char_profile.htm

If you have found joy and glee in what people call "griefing" (i.e: bombing, wearing the SWAT and/or Robot suits, attacking), it's often best to discuss it thoroughly with the host or active server administrators before you go on your rampages.
Page them using BYOND's pager (or IM them, if you know their instant messanger screen name), and ask if you can obtain permission to do whatever normally-irritating thing you want to do! That way, everyone knows that it's alright, and they don't have to worry about it.
However, if the host/administrator says no, just don't do it.
It's like drugs, or something! 

Now, little Jimmy, don't you feel better now that you know how to roleplay on Space Station 13?
(Just smile and nod, Jimmy.
Smile and nod.)